Move DNS, DHCP, and TFTP content to a new guide (#3530)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_integrating-idm-dns-with-tsig-authentication.adoc

Reviewer: Future improvement: see if we can merge this with "Integrating a generic DNS server by using dns_nsupdate". It really is supposed to be exactly the same starting with the `scp rndc.key`.

Looks like I improved one in https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/commit/3630ab70abbe7a8c506401b044b22c3eca42950d but didn't do the other.

Another possible improvement in the future: we should see if we could test DNS records end-to-end using the Smart Proxy API instead of telling users to do it manually. If we have that then we should also have it for other implementations such as Infoblox.

endif::[]
* You have `root` access on the {FreeIPA} server.

.Procedure
. Perform the following steps on the {FreeIPA} Server:
.. Insert the following settings at the top of the `/etc/named.conf` file:
+
[source, none, options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
include "/etc/rndc.key";
controls {
    inet _{FreeIPA}_server_ip_address_ port 953 allow { _{Project}_ip_address_; } keys { "rndc-key"; };
};
----
.. Reload the `named` service:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# systemctl reload named
----
. In the {FreeIPA} web UI:
.. Navigate to *Network Services* > *DNS* > *DNS Zones*
.. Click the name of the zone.
.. Open the *Settings* tab.
.. Enter in the *BIND update policy* field:
+
[source, none, options="nowrap"]
----
grant "rndc-key" zonesub ANY;
----
.. Set *Dynamic update* to *True*.
.. Click *Update* to save the changes.
. Configure dynamic DNS updates in {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.

> For details, see xref:integrating-a-generic-rfc-2136-compatible-remote-dns-server[].
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:integrating-a-generic-rfc-2136-compatible-remote-dns-server[].
```

[id="integrating-idm-dns-with-tsig-authentication"]
= Integrating {FreeIPA} DNS with TSIG authentication

You can configure an {FreeIPA} server to use the secret key transaction authentication for DNS (TSIG) technology that uses a key file for authentication.
The TSIG protocol is defined in https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2845[RFC2845].

.Prerequisites

* The {FreeIPA} server is deployed and functional.
* The firewall on the {FreeIPA} server allows access to the required ports.
ifndef::orcharhino[]
See {RHELDocsBaseURL}/9/html/installing_identity_management/preparing-the-system-for-ipa-server-installation_installing-identity-management#port-requirements-for-idm_preparing-the-system-for-ipa-server-installation[Port requirements for {FreeIPA}] in the _{RHEL}{nbsp}9 Installing Identity Management guide_.
endif::[]
* You have `root` access on the {FreeIPA} server.

> * You must confirm whether {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} is configured to provide DNS service for your deployment.

Reviewer 3: I also don't understand it. This prereq was already there, so I kept it as it was.

From your assumption it sounds like it's not a prereq. I have now removed it.

[id="integrating-idm-dns-with-tsig-authentication"]
= Integrating IdM DNS with TSIG authentication

> You can configure an IdM server to use the secret key transaction authentication for DNS (TSIG) technology that uses the `rndc.key` key file for authentication.

Reviewer: You can technically name it anything you want and `rndc.key` is just an example.
```suggestion
You can configure an IdM server to use the secret key transaction authentication for DNS (TSIG) technology that uses a key file for authentication.
```

The TSIG protocol is defined in https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2845[RFC2845].

.Prerequisites

> * You must ensure the IdM server is deployed and the host-based firewall is configured correctly.

Reviewer: Future improvement: in upstream we could mention FreeIPA instead of IdM. We have `{FreeIPA}` as an attribute that is unbranded upstream and branded downstream.

Reviewer 3: This was easy to implement. Updated in the entire guide.

> ifdef::satellite[]

Reviewer: I wouldn't mind this being generic since it's just linking to product documentation, but I know orcharhino generally doesn't do that.
```suggestion
ifndef::orcharhino[]
```

> For more information, see {RHELDocsBaseURL}7/html/linux_domain_identity_authentication_and_policy_guide/installing-ipa#prereq-ports[Port Requirements] in the _{RHEL}{nbsp}7 Linux Domain Identity, Authentication, and Policy Guide_.

Reviewer: Is there a RHEL 9 equivalent?

Reviewer 3: I already replaced it yesterday before your comment. The commit is just not pushed yet.

endif::[]

> * You must obtain `root` user access on the IdM server.

Reviewer: I'm not a writer, but isn't this a better style for prerequisites?
```suggestion
* You have `root` user access on the IdM server.
```

Reviewer 3: I already changed it to:
* You have `root` access on the {FreeIPA} server.
(commit is not pushed yet)

* You must confirm whether {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} is configured to provide DNS service for your deployment.

> * You must configure DNS, DHCP and TFTP services on the base operating system of either the {Project} or {SmartProxy} that is managing the DNS service for your deployment.

Reviewer: This isn't a prerequisite because at the end we point to a procedure to set this up
```suggestion
```

* You must create a backup of the answer file.
You can use the backup to restore the answer file to its original state if it becomes corrupted.
ifndef::orcharhino[]
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}configuring-server_{project-context}[Configuring {ProjectServer}].

> endif::[]

Reviewer: We've stopped recommending to back up the answer files.

Reviewer 3: removed

.Procedure

. On the IdM Server, add the following to the top of the `/etc/named.conf` file:
+
[source, none, options="nowrap" subs="+attributes"]
----
########################################################################

include "/etc/rndc.key";
controls  {
inet _IdM_Server_IP_Address_ port 953 allow { _{Project}_IP_Address_; } keys { "rndc-key"; };
};
########################################################################
----

. Reload the `named` service to make the changes take effect:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# systemctl reload named
----

. In the IdM web UI, navigate to *Network Services* > *DNS* > *DNS Zones* and click the name of the zone.
In the *Settings* tab, apply the following changes:

.. Add the following in the `BIND update policy` box:
+
[source, none, options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
grant "rndc-key" zonesub ANY;
----

.. Set *Dynamic update* to *True*.

.. Click *Update* to save the changes.

> . Configure dynamic DNS updates in {ProjectServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure dynamic DNS updates in {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.
```

For details, see xref:integrating-a-generic-rfc-2136-compatible-remote-dns-server[].

> . For each affected {SmartProxy}, update the configuration of that {SmartProxy} in the {ProjectWebUI}. See xref:associating-the-dns-service-with-a-domain-and-subnet[].

Reviewer: We already include this line in the above guide so I'd leave this out.

Reviewer 3: removed
